---
title: Philosophical Reflection On The Theological View Of My Own Personal Human Experience
date: 2025-08-11 00:00:00 Z
categories:
- RT1
- reflection-paper
RT: 1
layout: post
site-title: Philosophical Reflection on the Theological view of my own personal human
  experience
author: Lex Adrien C. Abellanosa
pic: assets/img/RT1/Abellanosa-Poster.jpg
---

You can never evaluate with 100% certainty who you are. An experiment that's fun for me is when you try to predict your thoughts — it's impossible, too much spontaneity in your thinking: why do we identify with our thoughts if we can't even predict them? Too many have had their thoughts used against them, and they themselves hurt themselves with their own thoughts, “Why did I think that?”, “I'm a bad person…”, yet you consciously disagree with those thoughts. Of course, you are what you think, you are your mind, “Cogito, ergo sum”, I think therefore I am — therefore I am what I think, but that's flawed. You are your mind, but I believe that it's more important to know and recognize how you think about your mind. There were experiments you can research where a person's brain was split in two, left and right hemisphere, but they were still alive; the communicating bridge between both hemispheres was severed. What's interesting is that, the left hemisphere controlled your right hand, the right — your left. Both sides interacted as if they were separate beings, the side of the brain responsible for speech was separate from the other. The speech left hand would justify the actions of the right, even if contradicting itself, “Use your right hand to put the object inside the left box”, and the right placed to the right box; what's scary is that the left side speech responsible hand tried to justify the actions of the right, “I changed my mind.”

My takeaway is that you are not the only one in your mind, and that executive control and will is hard and heavy to sway your mind(s) to a certain action. You are not alone in your mind. But rather than terrify, I use this information to empower; doing good is a constant willful act you do every day. Theologically, this influence empowers my faith. Every day is a struggle to do what is best, and not being alone in your mind means there is omnipotence, consciousness is a mystery and being able to freely choose to do good implies an inherent force for love, the hemispheres of the brain fighting over what they believe is best! I have two personal philosophies: “Everyone is doing what they believe is the best decision at any present moment”, and, “Matters of the soul are never black and white, and always grey.” The greatest thinkers across all of history have never solved matters of the soul definitely, and the cruelty of dread is how we're thrown into the unknown unwillingly. But to know that there is an influence to be instinctually good, though from their personal perspective of “Good”, still good nonetheless, love is inherent to consciousness.

Understanding of inherent love is — lovely! You can empathize, not just sympathize; we as people often treat actions and people's actions as being absolute, but I feel that the axioms I made for myself are very useful in interpersonal relationships and communication as a whole. Value in this thinking is evident when seeing life as a whole being a constant struggle to the end goal of salvation, and finding joy and peace in that struggle; the myth of sisyphus is apt in that description, Sisyphus was doomed by the god’s to roll a boulder up a hill, and when he's close to the top: the boulder rolls back down — for all eternity, this myth was adapted by Albert Camus into his belief in absurdism: that life is absurd, but that we must smile in spite of it — to spite it. I reflect on my beliefs a lot, and I've concluded that belief in a God is beneficial when applied well. As a wholeheartedly admitted christian, I believe in an omnipotent external power, and that the external power is inherently good: the embodiment of love. Life is a sisyphean struggle to death, and in that struggle we must smile, we must love, spitefully love despite the absurd circumstances; we know that there is a love beyond us, so what excuse do we have to not smile?

Personally, I've experienced that this outlook has positively impacted my relationships, with family, friends, love, and the like. I used to think of my parents being unreasonable and malicious, I knew they wanted the best, but this clearly isn't it — right? But retrospectively, I've come to realize that I didn't question myself more than I questioned others. The love I'm grateful to have was only strengthened by my understanding of myself! I've learned to constantly question myself and my beliefs, my passions and my spite; this constant reflection has been nothing but positives, I've noticed that the adults in my life have been bogged down by life, tired of pushing the boulder, and losing their passions and spark for life, their spark for life. These are my opinions and I'm happy to discuss, but please think through my words too, and apply to your personal experiences; my words, regarding matters of the soul, will never be absolutely true. But I implore you to sift through my thoughts and think critically.