---
title: Breakthrough a Bounded Soul Driven by a Narrow Mind
date: 2025-08-11 00:00:00 Z
categories:
- RT5
RT: 5
layout: post
site-title: Breakthrough a Bounded Soul Driven by a Narrow Mind
author: Samantha Nicole O. Parsacala
pic: assets/img/RT5/Parsacala-Poster.jpg
---

Currently, I am a 1st-year Senior High School Student, enrolled in the STEM strand and Technology track. Throughout my education, I have experienced my worst and my best, undergoing through challenging storms, and relaxing paradise filled with academic responsibilities and youthful adventures, and there is no denying that these two clash and compete for dominance in my teenage life. In the midst of these up and downs, there was a time that felt like I was more than a body and mind that functions, where I reached and dug deep for a deeper purpose and meaning for my existence, pushing through my limitations and basic capabilities, it was during my last year being a Junior High School student, Grade 10/4th year JHS. The 4th and final periodical exams were coming up, my results and grades for these exams would determine my final and general grade averages, determining whether I would set foot in the list of Honor students or would be a disappointment to myself and possibly to my family. I felt the overwhelming need, intense pressure, and deep sense of purpose to excel in this exam and meet high expectations. I found myself pushing and reaching beyond my limitations, doing all I can to study all day, even during nights, steering clear of distractions and setting aside my desire for entertainment, fully committed to the goal I set for myself despite the sacrifices and challenges. This experience opened my eyes and made me realize how much potential I kept inside and how I limited myself to acting only according to my known basic capabilities. This made me realize that I am willing to ignore my limitations in order to achieve my goals even amidst chaos and self-conflict. I proved to myself that I am a daughter of God created in his likeness and image, perfectly imperfect, unique, and full of mistakes. I stayed true to who I am and my values, even when my kind has fallen, and still I am saved by him. Driven by purpose and meaning, I can expand my potential, enduring discomfort for something worth it and great in return. I am not just thinking or doing something, I am choosing to endure and persist for something greater, as my existence isn’t just functional, it is intentional.

Experiencing such a situation encouraged me to consider all factors, not just things that I see on the surface, viewing it as a challenge or obstacle that is impossible to overcome. At first, I convinced myself that I could not do my best and that it would be challenging, I often only considered my desires and freedom first. However, after fully understanding the effects (benefits and consequences) of either the decision of studying to reach my goal and overcome the obstacle, or choosing to enjoy first and rely on my stock knowledge, I comprehended better how every decision and my point of views can alter the course of my life. It heavily influenced how I act, It opened my mind to different points of views, especially about the concept of sacrificing for the better. Rather than heavily depending on my opinions, desires, and partial point of view,  

I decided to view life in a holistic manner, opening myself to various points and exposing my mind to multiple possibilities that may occur as results from my different decisions. By changing my perspective, I can clearly set my goals and path straight, making it understandable for me what I want to achieve despite the setbacks, limitations, and sacrifices. This made me realize the great difference between the two: Partial point of view - focuses on my desire of being free from pressure and stress, being able to entertain myself and avoid challenging tasks; Holistic point of view - focuses on the concept of great achievements comes with great sacrifices, and how they will lead me to two completely different paths. 

Initially, I convinced myself to believe that I am not capable of overcoming such a challenge, however, with the proper mindset and values, I am able to open up a new possibility, and I overcame it. With the help of analyzing concepts of truth in my given experience, using the Coherence theory to motivate myself and set my goals straight, realizing that to be able to take part in the Honor students list and achieve high scores with the given grading system, the only way was to study hard and understand each lesson. Further realization about my own beliefs and the opposing truths was that following my own opinions would only limit my potential and my point of views, but focusing and seeking the truth allows me to fully understand concepts and reasonings in my life, making me more than just a body and mind that functions, I am my own identity under God’s guidance and love, blessed with purpose and meaning. No matter how hard I fall, I will always find a way towards hope.

