---
title: Beyond Temptation A Journey of Self-Discovery and Redemption
date: 2025-08-11 00:00:00 Z
categories:
- RT5
RT: 5
layout: post
site-title: Beyond Temptation A Journey of Self-Discovery and Redemption
author: David Elvis D. Alia 
pic: assets/img/RT5/Alia-Poster.jpg
---

How can I change myself when my actions won’t, how can I become someone else when I can’t overcome my fears, how will I ever understand others when I don’t even understand myself? My drawing is about the fall of man in Genesis 3, Because in the bible both Adam and Eve  where tempted to eat the apple from the tree by Nachash who was the snake, This symbolizes us as we tend to be tempted to do things we aren’t supposed to do, we know it's wrong from the beginning but we insisted in doing it anyways. We let our curiosity get the best of us, and that is what leads us to our fall. We can control ourselves from temptation if we just think about the benefits and consequences we get if we do something. I also have done bad things because of temptation, and it burdens me as I knew about how temptation always gets the best of us when we actually fall for it, and now that I have fully understood myself, I let those burdens be my strengths as these help me understand myself more, to fully know and to make the right choices that I once lacked from my past self.

I can reflect this on myself as I, too, also get tempted to do things that I know are not to do, I know what’s right and what’s wrong but always get tempted by things, people, and even jealousy. Why jealousy? I sometimes have the idea to want something even if it means doing something bad just to have it, like when I was still I child I used to steal stuff from my classmates as I was jealous of what they had that I didn’t. I have always wanted things when I was a child, even if I don’t have it this instant I pray and ask myself, is this actually worth the struggle? And now here I am letting my past mistakes be my inspiration on who I used to be and what I am now, a much better example for the newer generation, someone who thinks before they act, someone who thinks of others feeling rather than being selfish, and someone who is there to ask for guidance when in need.  For instance, my friend has a problem with someone from another class, I ask why, they said that the person is a really bad person and should not be trusted, I said to myself “how can that be, when I barely got any information on what they did?”, so I asked them why are they a bad person, they said that they bullied and blackmailed them to do something she wouldn’t do, and after that I kept that in mind as it might help later on with the investigation, and then later I asked one of my close friends who was actually a classmate of that person, I asked them about the person and said that my friend has an issue towards them and I’d like to clarify if these accusations are true, they then say that it's actually true that this person has done this, with other people too, so then it hit me, with all these information I can finally understand if what my friend accused them of is true! And later on I did find out when their classmate who is my friend spoke out to me and said they are bullying again, and so I said to myself that they are not to be trusted as I have information to support my claim on why they are not to be trusted.

I learned that during my reflection through having a moment in silence, that I really realize who I truly am as a person, especially my purpose in my life. I am now a person who doesn’t let past guilt burden me from succeeding in the future, as to be someone great is to let go of your past and be a new person that people can look up to, and what I’m saying is the truth about myself. You can understand yourself, find your worth, and learn the truth about yourself if you just let go of what’s pushing\pulling you back. Don’t be what you used to be, be the greater you, understand your mistakes and learn from it, just like in Genesis 3 where both Adam and Eve were punished for the sin they committed, they understood that they were at fault and accepted that they didn’t know any better and accepted their fate. That’s how you understand yourself. This can also be connected to our lesson as we can’t think something is right or wrong when you have little to no knowledge of it, you must think clearly, get some ideas, before acting out.
