---
title: The Garden, the Gate, and My Growth
date: 2025-08-11 00:00:00 Z
categories:
- RT2
- reflection-paper
RT: 2
layout: post
site-title: The Garden, the Gate, and My Growth
author: Francis Augustin C. Dandan
pic: assets/img/RT2/Dandan-Poster.jpg
---

As I look at my poster, it shows simplicity, human dignity, despair, and worth. Some ask, why don’t I just use the birth of Adam, why, you ask? My answer would be: Who decided that? Who gets to decide what I use as “Imago Dei”, also known as “The Image of God” as my poster or representation? I used the Garden of Eden, which is why I used  the trees. While they may not be abundant, they show a great significance, depicting my own Imago Dei. The Garden is where our origin first started, the beginning to our journey towards the end of our thread of life. The gate symbolizes restriction, a barrier from the bottom area, the sinful part of our lives. The gate helps us in staying true to ourselves and remaining untouched from the sinful actions motives. And lastly, the three symbols on the bottom part reflect the sins, the other side of our divinity and purity. Commit a sinful act once, then you may turn to God and seek for guidance and repent, but to do it numerously leads to the three: the broken heart leads you to feel extreme grief and sorrow, a sense of regret of turning your back against the only one who truly loved you when no one is there to be with you, the vase leads you to a shattered life, an unmendable connection to the Holy One, the church, and most importantly, to yourself. Why yourself, you ask? Because as you commit countless sins, you gradually start to lose your humanity, your emotions, and result in an eternal separation from God. And lastly, the human depicts despair, a complete absence of hope in yourself. You wallow yourself in despair as you think of all the countless sins you committed, without any hope of repentance and cleansing. 

At one point in my life, I experienced a critical moment that can either make me move forward or stop me completely. It was back when I was addicted to playing on my computer all day. I had met all kinds of people online, and some of them were through games that needed certain items to be traded in order to progress. I once had a trade where the other person offered me their most valuable item in their possession in exchange for mine, but that specific item was needed for a certain quest I took up but the most valued item in my possession was needed also, so it led me to a difficult decision at that time, as I had not matured and realized enough yet, so I took their item and left while still also having my own item. This was the concept of “scamming”, and it felt great and painful at the same time, as I had to act beyond my own morals and values and shatter another person’s  to achieve my goal. At first, I didn’t think too much of it, as it was just in a videogame, but as time went by, I began to feel guilty, worried that my actions caused another person to do the same as I did, and it would lead to a chain reaction. I was in a state of sadness and anger at myself, it can also be possible for despair too, as I was beginning to think that my own actions resulted in a person now being a villain, causing others to suffer and feel what they felt. But growing older, those thoughts and the concept of scamming gradually became clearer and more faint by the day. And then, I realized. If you stop in your tracks and let yourself get consumed by negative thoughts, you can’t move forward. Instead, give yourself a push, challenge yourself to greater heights, and always imagine a stronger, and better version of yourself. But only imagining won’t get you very far, implement the stronger version of yourself to your current self and see how much it can improve you. That moment gave me a feeling where I was just more than a body and mind, it felt like reaching greater heights, and pushing my body beyond my own capabilities. That moment led me to a deeper understanding of human thoughts and emotions, and that here is a complex set of emotions that run through a person every day.

In the beginning that situation was observed from a limited perspective, and the me in that point viewed the situation as a massive decision that would determine the kind of person I was. Numerous emotions ran inside me that time such as anxiety, betrayal, distrust, and shame on myself. Looking back at it now, I came to the conclusion that understanding the situation as a whole including emotions, thoughts, the context, and the people involved, it really changes how you look at the world, the people, and yourself. I learned to accept not everything is about myself, and we should be open to perspectives,and we should  lower ourselves in the positions of others. Considering both holistic and partial perspectives, we get to focus on the smallest and specific details, with it, we can analyze one part of the situation such as feelings and actions. This helps us in understanding why that situation happened and how it personally affected you. With a holistic perspective, it lets you see the bigger picture. You learn to see how different parts are intertwined, helping you to identify the patterns and learn deeper lessons. When you combine both perspectives, you reduce your chances of making quick or one-sided judgments. Before, I believed scamming in a game wasn’t just a big deal because it was virtual and online. At that time, I thought it wouldn’t truly harm anyone. But as I grew older, I realized that this was only my opinion. The actual truth was that my selfish actions still hurt someone, it could affect their trust, and might even cause a chain reaction of negativity. I reflected on my actions and their effects on others, just like I described in my story. I looked at both the small details such as the feelings I experienced like guilt and shame, and the bigger picture, which showed me how one wrong action can affect others beyond what I see. Combining both partial and holistic perspectives helped me understand the truth more clearly. And from that experience, I learned that seeking the truth teaches me empathy and responsibility. Instead of staying stuck from my old mindset, I pushed myself to grow, as I said in my reflection—imagining a stronger version of myself and putting it into action. This shift in perspective made me more mindful of how my actions can affect others and helped me to avoid one-sided judgements.
