---
title: A Journey in Four Parts Creation, Fall, Redemption, and Hope
date: 2025-08-11 00:00:00 Z
categories:
- RT4
- reflection-paper
RT: 4
layout: post
site-title: A Journey in Four Parts Creation, Fall, Redemption, and Hope
author: Carlisle I. Sevilla
pic: assets/img/RT4/Sevilla-Poster.jpg
---

My poster reflects the journey and experience of the Theological View of the Human Experience on creation, the fall, redemption, and hope. All these theological views are not just theological ideas but are also one’s realities, perspectives, and experiences that every person has in life. Reflecting on these has helped me form a more holistic and profound vision of life. A quality that some see as good or bad in others, an important knowledge that we must see life as a whole if we want to understand life deeply. A time when I experienced trying to try and reach a bigger goal was when I joined a poster-making contest in my Grade 8 and 9 years. Before joining my second poster-making contest(Grade 9), I won second place in my first one(Grade 8). With my confidence and motivation to try and reach my goal in achieving first place, I worked hard to make my poster better and have improvements. When the announcement of winners was released, I was happy that I won first place! What I learned in my poster-making journey was, I have the ability and strength to achieve something I’ll work hard for. This whole journey means recognizing that every idea, hope, action, feeling, and thought is shaping who I am today and what I believe in.

Creation reminds me of my origin. Where I was created by God in His image and likeness to be His children and spread the good news. I was given life, family, faith, talents, failures, strength, and opportunities that shaped me into who I am today. When I hear the word “creation,” it is not just my birth, but my beginning in learning about life and how I am created by God with a purpose. The fall is where my moments of lowest, sadness, sin, and making mistakes are. I remembered all those times when I struggled with things and felt lost in my thoughts. Yet, fall is not only about losing my balance. But, made me learn how to stand up on my own and face all my worries. It is a lesson that I’m still growing and it is teaching me that there are always challenges in life. After all those problems, there is redemption. The part where it helps heal the broken pieces together and helps me get back to myself. After falling, I learned my mistakes and came back stronger than before. It is all about giving yourself a second chance. A chance that you, as a person, are not perfect and are still discovering life. Hope is where my journey keeps going while having faith in God. Even in my lowest moments, hope is the light that keeps on telling me to keep going. My hope comes from my dreams, my future, and my faith in God’s plan. It is hope that turns my endings into a new beginnings that gives me growth and meaning in my life.

Looking at all these stages, I see a holistic vision of life. Life doesn’t always have one path. But a cycle of new beginnings, learnings, obstacles, opportunities, and dreams. It is profound because it makes me go deeper to my limits and see every meaning behind every moment. Through the experiences that I’ve been through, I now understand that there are some beliefs that were shaped by people’s feelings and thoughts rather than solid facts. I was able to see these topics clearly when I took research, had time to observe, ask questions from others, and seek trustworthy information. This process taught me how to seek the truth rather than accept more opinions from others. Which allows me to grow, make choices, and develop a deeper understanding of myself in this world. Every memory in life is meaningful, and we should cherish it. Lastly, It is a reminder that my life is still written and I have the power to make every day worth living and meaningful.
